welcome my name is Sophia and now I'm
going to talk about gran torino Walt
Kowalski as a cantankerous retired
polish-american assembly line worker and
Korean War veteran who has recently been
widowed after fifty years of marriage
causing him to be a lapsed Catholic his
home in Highland Park a city in Wayne
County Michigan which was formerly
populated by working-class white
families is now dominated by poor Asian
immigrants and gang violence as
commonplace adding to his isolation and
detachment are his feelings towards his
married sons and their families he
rejects a suggestion from one of his
sons to move to a retirement community
sensing that they want his home and
possessions and lives alone with his
elderly dog Daisy a longtime cigarette
smoker Walt suffers from coughing fits
occasionally coughing up blood
but conceals this from his family
Catholic priest father Janovich tries to
comfort him but Walt disdains the young
inexperienced man eventually Walt opens
up to the priest revealing that he is
still haunted by memories of the war the
Hmong banglore family resides next door
to Walt initially he wants nothing to do
with his new neighbors particularly
after he catches thou attempting to
steal his 1972 Ford Gran Torino as a
coerced initiation into a Hmong gang run
by those cousin Fung whose nickname as
spider the gang is infuriated by those
failure and they attack him but Walt
confronts them with an m1 garand rifle
and chases them up earning the respect
of the Hmong community as penance vows
mother makes him work for Walt for a
week
who has him do odd jobs around the
neighborhood and the to form a grudging
mutual respect
thou is highly impressed at the
extensive tool collection in Walt's
garage thou sister su introduces Walt to
Monk food and culture and helps him bond
with the Hmong community who soon become
more like family to Walt than his actual
family
turn Walzer becomes a better man to them
than he was to his own sons Walt helps
they'll get a job working construction
and gives him advice on dating and how
to make conversation at job interviews
Walt eventually visits a doctor
regarding his coughing fits where it
becomes clear that he does not have long
to live now faces continued abuse and
harassment from spiders game they attack
him on his way home from work leading
Walt to violently beat one of the gang
members and hold him at gunpoint later
in retaliation the gang fires at the
banglore house with submachine guns in a
drive-by shooting injuring bough and
damaging the house a bloodied sue
appears at the door before collapsing
having been beaten and raped by the gang
an infuriated Walt learns from father
Janovich that sue has been hospitalized
the neighbors declined to assist the
following police investigation fearing
that providing information will trigger
violent attacks from spiders gangs the
next day thou seeks Walt's help to exact
revenge and Walt tells him to return
later in the afternoon in the meantime
Walt makes personal preparations
he buys a suit gets a haircut and makes
the confession to father Janovich who
had pressured him to make it at the
behest of his late wife when thou
returns Walt takes him to the basement
gives him his Silver Star medal then
locks him in the basement and tells him
of his haunting memory of having killed
a surrendering enemy soldier he keeps
they locked in the basement until the
revenge is over to make sure the boy
will never be haunted by killing someone
with his life ahead of him that night
Walt goes to the gang members house
where they draw their firearms on him he
stands on the sidewalk in front of their
house and loudly baits them and
enumerates their crimes drawing the
attention of the neighbors putting a
cigarette in his mouth he asks for a
light then
puts his hand in the pocket of his
jacket and provocatively pulls it out as
if he were holding a gun
causing the gang members to shoot him
dead as Walt falls to the ground his
hand opens to reveal his the post figure
at Leiter with the first cavalry
insignia he was unarmed his plan from
the beginning was to provoke them into
killing him in public with the neighbors
watching su following Walt's directions
freeze thou and they drive to the scene
in Walt's Gran Torino one of the police
officers tells them that all of the gang
members have been placed under arrest
for the murder and due to the number of
witnesses they face a lengthy sentence
in prison bow and soo realized that
Walt's intended to die to free the
community of the gangs terror Walt's
funeral mass is celebrated by father
Janovich and attended by his family and
many of the Hmong community many of whom
are wearing traditional attire their
presence visibly puzzles Walt's family
afterwards his last will and testament
as red to his family's surprise Walt
leaves them nothing his house goes to
the church and his cherished gran torino
goes to thou with the condition that he
does not modify the vehicle later thou
is seen driving the car along Jefferson
Avenue with Daisy thank you all for
watching don't forget to subscribe and
hit the bell notification for more of
these videos